---
layout: default
title: JSON
date: 2021-02-12 20:46:17 +0100
nav_order: 3
parent: Integrations
grand_parent: Systems
permalink: /json.html
---

# JSON

If you are integrating tools, using an [API](https://revopsguide.net/apis.html) or [webhook](https://revopsguide.net/webhooks.html) or writing a script to automate a task you will come across JSON. JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation and is a file format used all over the internet. JSON can be used in most modern programming languages, it is not tied to JavaScript, as the name might suggest. JSON is also easy to read and write.

You can identify JSON files through the `.json` extension, but you will likely come across JSON in an API response or one of your tools.
When working in RevOps you will automate a task or build an integration sooner or later. That is when knowing the basics of JSON will make your task a lot easier.

This post will show you:

- What JSON looks like
- The data types in JSON
- The structure of JSON
- Using and reading JSON

## Example JSON

Before we begin unpacking the different datatypes or the structure of JSON let us look at some example JSON that you might encounter.
Here is a shortened response from the HubSpot API. The data requested from the API, in this case, was a list of deal properties. This is the sort of information HubSpot usually displays to you in the property settings.

```json
{
  "results": [
    {
      "updatedAt": "2022-03-26T20:09:55.854Z",
      "createdAt": "2015-08-06T02:41:52.201Z",
      "name": "amount",
      "label": "Amount",
      "type": "number",
      "fieldType": "number",
      "description": "The total amount of the deal",
      "groupName": "dealinformation",
      "options": [],
      "displayOrder": 2,
      "calculated": false,
      "externalOptions": false,
      "hubspotDefined": true,
      "showCurrencySymbol": true,
      "modificationMetadata": {
        "archivable": true,
        "readOnlyDefinition": true,
        "readOnlyValue": false
      },
      "formField": false
    },
    {
      "updatedAt": "2022-01-14T20:45:56.577Z",
      "createdAt": "2015-08-06T02:41:52.364Z",
      "name": "closedate",
      "label": "Close Date",
      "type": "datetime",
      "fieldType": "date",
      "description": "The expected close date of the deal",
      "groupName": "dealinformation",
      "options": [],
      "displayOrder": 5,
      "formField": false
    }
  ]
}
```

## Datatypes in JSON

The example above shows that JSON can store different kinds of information. Most programming languages distinguish different data types. These help the program understand how to interpret the data. Numbers, for example, can be used in arithmetic and boolean values can be used for logical operations. JSON has 6 basic data types. Four of these are primitive, simple types: `numbers`, `strings`, `booleans`, and `null`. The two others organize information, they are: `objects`, and `arrays`.

### Strings

A string is a sequence of zero or more characters. Strings use double quotes `" "` for demarkation. That means the string starts with the first and ends with the second double quote. Here are some examples:

- `"This is a string that contains text"`
- `"strings can contain numbers 1239.34123 or consist of numbers only"`
- `"$1399.99"` `"100"` `"2015-08-06T02:41:52.364Z"`
- `"What matters are the double quotes!"`

Strings are very common. They usually hold text, but also commonly contain date information, we'll get to how to use date information in strings later.
Watch out for numbers that are strings. You will get errors or strange results trying to do math with strings.

At some point, you might come across some strange backslashes `\` in a string. These are "escape" characters. They tell a program "hey, treat the next character differently".
This can be important when you want to include double quotes, for example, without ending the string early. For example:

- `"And then he told me: "Hey, you cannot use double quotes in a string!""` this will break
- `"And I responded with: \" you can use escape characters for that.\""` this will not break

### Numbers

in JSON numbers can use decimals, be positive or negative and use exponential E notation. For example:

- `200`
- `3.14159265359`
- `-273.15`
- `2.718e10`

Non-numbers like `NaN` (Not a Number) are not allowed. The use cases for numbers are unsurprising. One exception is the use of Unix timestamps to represent date information in seconds or milliseconds[^1]. The Unix timestamp is the number of (mili-)seconds since `00:00:00 UTC on 1 January 1970`. You can convert Unix timestamps into human-readable time in your code or use a website [like this one](https://www.unixtimestamp.com/).

- `1647123014` is a timestamp in seconds
- `1647123014000` is a timestamp in milliseconds

### Boolenas

Boolean values can either be `true` or `false`. Booleans are useful in logic and while programming since they allow you to write conditionals.[^2]
In the HubSpot example above we saw that booleans are used to record binary information about a property. E.g. `"hubspotDefined": true` indicates that this is a property created by HubSpot.

### Null

Your CRM and many other systems have empty values. But how do we represent nothing? With numbers you might be tempted to use a zero, but that might still be incorrect, for example when measuring temperature or price. Having no data on price is very different than knowing that the price is 0. The same problem exists for strings and booleans.

`null` solves this problem. It means there is no information. In other contexts or formats you might come across `undefined`,`NaN` or `""` to represent "nothing".
In JSON you only need to remember `null`.

### Objects

Objects are one of the two complex data types in JSON. Objects help organize information and make it accessible for lookups. A JSON object starts and ends with curly brackets `{ }`. Within those brackets you then find so-called key-value pairs: `{"key": "value"}`. The key always has double quotes `"key"` and the key and value are separated by a colon `:`. If there are multiple key-value pairs they are separated by a comm `,`. This is what the example API response showed above. Here is another example object:

```json
{
  "firstName": "Bruno",
  "lastName": "Petersen",
  "age": 27,
  "occupation": "RevOps Manager"
}
```

Objects are useful in grouping related information. The example above groups information about a person. Your CRM might choose to have contact, company, and deal objects, for example. The object structure makes it possible to lookup values (more on that later), but you can see how, if you had a bunch of these objects you can look up the firstName or age within for any object that follows this layout.

What sets objects apart from the other data types we looked at so far is that they can be nested.

```json
{
  "firstName": "Bruno",
  "lastName": "Petersen",
  "age": 27,
  "occupation": "RevOps Manager",
  "pet": {
    "name": "Fenton",
    "type": "Dog",
    "breed": "Beauceron"
  }
}
```

### Arrays

## Things to watch out for

common JSON responses: arrays

- parsing
- Dates and times stored as strings or numbers (Unix timestamp)
- Nesting and deep copies
- Strings vs. parsed JSON.

---

[^1]: Unix time also supports micro and nanoseconds, but that is a very unlikely use case in RevOps.
[^2]: Leaving JSON aside for a moment. You will find booleans being used with logical operators such as AND, OR and NOT often represented as `&&`, `||` and `!` respectively. Condition testing statements that start with `if` or `while` allow you to then put the boolean values to use.
