---
layout: default
title: Speaking
date: 2021-02-12 20:46:17 +0100
nav_order: 1
parent: Communication
permalink: /speaking.html
---

# Speaking

Giving a presentation is a regular part of working in revenue operations. You present analyses, share new ideas, communicate process changes, motivate change and more.
Even the best ideas or crucial insights can fail to have an impact when delivered poorly. Improving how you present and speak has a huge impact on being effective in revops.

I have found it most helpful to work on purpose, relevance, brevity, clarity, context, engagement, alignment and understanding.

### Purpose

Clear purpose should be the starting point of any presentation. To help identify purpose ask yourself: "What am I trying to achieve?".
Writing down your purpose helps you focus which improves clarity and engagement later on. When giving a presentation my purpose might be to convince a colleague on the necessity of reducing technical debot or to help someone understand a piece of automation.

### Relevance

Communication is transactional, though, as the [elements of communication](https://revopsguide.net/communication.html) highlight. The recievers of your message have their own purpose and interpretation. Account for that. Ask yourself" "What is in it for them?". If your audience does not care about what you have to say you will struggle getting a point across.

### Brevity

-> reduce interference

### Clarity

-> improve message, reduce interference

### Context

->

### Engagement

-> receiver, feedback

### Alignment

-> receiver, context

### Understanding

-> feedback

### Miscellanous Tips

When preparing a formal presentation or speech it is helpful to know that you need about 150 words per minute.
