---
layout: default
title: Writing
date: 2021-02-12 20:46:17 +0100
nav_order: 2
parent: Communication
permalink: /writing.html
---

# Writing

## Ideas that matter are written down

Ideas that have an *impact* on your daily work are written down. If they haven't yet, they will be soon.
We take notes during meetings, follow up on a conversation or collect our thoughts in writing. We communicate through email, Slack, or put text in our presentations. 

We write to explain, clarify, convince, document, and entertain. 
Each written word is intended to be read. This leaves the writer with the responsibility to make those words count. 

Poor writing causes confusion, uncertainty and wastes time. Good writing provides clarity.

These are some of the reasons writing well is important. If you want to make an impact you will need to communicate your ideas in writing and you will want to do so effectively. 

## Basic principles of effective writing 
Some questions can be useful to ask yourself when writing:

#### Before writing: Purpose and Medium
- What do I want to achieve with this message?
If you are explaining something you will write differently than you would if you are asking a question or making a recommendation. Figure out what you want to say before you start writing. 

- Is a written message the best way to communicate this? 
While writing is important there are some things better said in person or on the phone. You might bring up a sensitive topic or have to explain something more easily shown or drawn.

#### While writing: Less is more
- Keep sentences short.
Try and stay below 30 words per sentence. You can often replace common phrases with a single word. This helps reduce language complexity. 
Tools like Grammarly can be a great help here.
e.g.: the reason why is that -> because

- Omit needless words. From elements of style:
> Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts, This requires not that the writer make all sentences short, or avoid all detail and treat subjects only in outline, but that every word tell. [^1]

- Be specific:
Write with nouns and verbs not with adjectives and adverbs. In revenue operations you can often replace adjectives with data. For example:
The number of sales qualified leads increased *significantly* -> The number of sales qualified leads increased by 20% compared to last week from 100 last 120. 

Avoid [weasel words](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_word). There are three common categories here:
> 1. Numerically vague expressions (for example, "some people", "experts", "many", "evidence suggests")
2. Use of the passive voice to avoid specifying an authority (for example, "it is said")
3. Adverbs that weaken (for example, "often", "probably")


- Get to the point:
Start with the most important piece of information. Assume the reader might only read the first one or two sentences means. 
For questions in particular this means starting the response by answering the question directly. 
For example:
How many sales qualified leads did the SDR team create last week?
The SDR team created 120 SQLs last week. 70 of these where created by the EU team, 50 by our US based team. 


- Revise and rewrite:
It is OK to delete what you have written and start over. Revising is part of writing. Few writers are so expert that they can produce what they are after on the first try.[^1]


## Practical advice in a business environment

Tools like Slack or Microsoft Teams offer features that can make your messages easier to digets.

These include:
- Turning lists into numbers or bullet points
- Using emojiis if appropriate to draw attention to important sections.
- Responding to parts of a message by using quotes.

---

[^1]: The Elements of Style - Strunk, White, Kalman.
