---
layout: default
title: Acronyms
date: 2021-02-12 20:46:17 +0100
nav_order: 3
parent: SaaS
permalink: /acronyms.html
---

# Acronyms

You are likely to encounter many different acronyms when working in Revenue Operations. Sales, legal, and finance departments seem to be especially fond of them. 

<!-- [Try to avoid acronyms](https://gist.github.com/klaaspieter/12cd68f54bb71a3940eae5cdd4ea1764). They make [communication]({% post_url 2022-02-11-communication}) nedlessly opaque.  -->

## General Agenda and Management Systems:
**ROA**
Results, Outcomes, Actions (actions influence outcomes influence results)

**PARC**
Purpose, Agenda, Results, Check

**OKR**
Objectives and Key Results

---
## Coaching:
**SBO**
Situation -> Behaviour -> Outcome -> | -> Alternate Behaviour -> Alternate Outcome


## Interview:
**STARR** Situation, Task, Action, Result, Reflection

---
## Qualification Frameworks:

**CHAMP**
Challenges, Authority, Money, Prioritization

**MEDDIC**
Metrics, Economic Buyer, Decision Criteria, Decision Process, Identify Pain, Champion

**BANT** 
 Budget, Authority, Need, Timing

**GPCT  BA  CI** (Goals, Plans, Challenges, Timeline); Budget, Authority: Negative Consequences and Positive Implications

---
## Sales Methodologies

**SPIN** Situation, Problem, Implication, Need Payoff

**PSV** Pain, Solution, Value

---

## Legal and Sales
**MSA**
A *master service agreement*, or *MSA*, is a contract reached between parties, in which the parties agree to most of the terms that will govern future transactions or future agreements. A master service agreement allows the involved parties to more quickly negotiate future transactions or agreements, because they can rely on the strong foundation of the master agreement for future business, so that the same terms need not be repetitively negotiated, and you only need to negotiate terms specific to the latest deal.

**NDA**
A *non-disclosure agreement* (*NDA*), also known as a confidentiality agreement (CA), confidential disclosure agreement (CDA), proprietary information agreement (PIA) or secrecy agreement (SA), is a  legal contract between at least two parties that outlines confidential material, knowledge, or information that the parties wish to share with one another for certain purposes, but wish to restrict access to.

**DPA**
A *data processing agreement* (DPA) is a legally binding document to be entered into between the controller and the *processor* in writing or in electronic form. It regulates the particularities of *data processing* – such as its scope and purpose – as well as the relationship between the controller and the *processor*.

**P/O**
A purchase order (PO) is a commercial document and first official offer issued by a buyer to a seller indicating types, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services. It is used to control the purchasing of products and services from external suppliers.

**RFQ** Request for Quote - Short for “request for quotation,” the RFQ is an even more detailed document that drills down to the exact specifications required by the company. In a situation where an RFQ is used for a B2B software project, the company knows enough about its current system and exactly how it wants to change or improve it in the future.
Unlike the RFP, which allows for the flexibility of the vendor to suggest creative solutions to the problem, a company deploying an RFQ isn’t looking for creativity, but rather for the vendor to deploy the software using predetermined specifications. Typically, the RFQ contains a table that lists each requirement and then asks the vendor to assess its ability to meet that requirement. The vendor then will specify whether it can meet the requirement out of the box, whether it will require some configuration, whether it will require some custom code, or whether it will require leveraging a third-party vendor.


**RFP**  Request for proposal is a document that solicits proposal, often made through a bidding process, by an agency or company interested in procurement of a commodity, service, or valuable asset, to potential suppliers to submit business proposals.

**RFI** Short for “request for information,” the RFI is really a preliminary document used by companies that don’t understand the marketplace they’re about to enter. In the case of a company searching for a customer relationship management (CRM) solution, for instance, it would use an RFI if it had no prior experience with CRM and wanted to gain an understanding on the range of options in the CRM space.
Because the RFI is more of a fact-finding document, you’ll want to ask open-ended questions, ones that allow the vendor to talk about its full range of offerings. Typically, the RFI will state the broad business challenges you’re having, and then the vendor can tailor its response within the context of those challenges. Oftentimes, the vendor will explain its position in the marketplace (for instance, what industries it specializes in), how it licenses its product, and what other fees you can expect.

**MO** Modus Operandi

**GTM** 
Google Tag Manager OR
Go To Market (strategy)
The end goal of a go-to-market strategy is to enhance the overall customer experience by offering a superior product and/or more competitive pricing.

**QBR** Quarterly Business Review

**POC** Proof of Concept

**COB** stands for “close of business.” It refers to the end of a business day and the close of the financial markets in New York City, which define U.S. business hours. It’s used in business communications to set a deadline for a task to be completed by 5:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST).

**EOD** stands for “end of day.” It’s used to set a deadline for a task that should be complete by the end of the business day -- typically 5:00 PM. When no time zone is provided, end of day is relative to the sender’s time zone.

## Other

**TAM** Total addressable market

**ICP** Ideal Customer Profile

**Opps** Opportunities 

**TOFU/BOFU**  Top of funnel /bottom of funnel - in the context of the buying journey.